.TH LO 1 "April 2026" "lo 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lo \- launch Node/Bun/Rust/Python/Java/Go/Docker Compose projects quickly for development
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lo
.RI [ project-name ]
.br
.B lo
.B compose
.RI [ project-name ]
.br
.B lo
.B --list
.br
.B lo
.B --pad
.RI [ name ]
.br
.B lo
.B --pad
.B --list
.RI [ name ]
.br
.B lo
.B --pad
.B --edit
.RI [ name ]
.br
.B lo
.B --edit
.br
.B lo
.B --print-config
.br
.B lo
.B --help
.br
.B lo
.B --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lo
is a Go CLI that speeds up daily frontend/backend development workflows.
It finds your project, detects package manager and script, installs dependencies
if needed, and launches your dev process in a detached terminal.
.br
When a project root contains a supported Docker Compose file, lo also exposes a
separate compose entry for that root.
.PP
When no project name is provided, lo opens a Bubble Tea interactive project list:
.IP \[bu] 2
Type to filter in real time.
.IP \[bu] 2
Use arrow keys (or j/k) to move selection.
.IP \[bu] 2
Press Enter to launch and Esc to cancel.
.IP \[bu] 2
Preview stack is shown for each project (Node/Rust/Python/Java/Go framework hints).
.PP
Configuration prompt (first run and
.B --edit )
also uses Bubble Tea when terminal UI is available.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B compose [project-name]
Launch Docker Compose for a discovered project root using:
.br
.B docker compose up -d --build --remove-orphans
.br
Supported files:
.B docker-compose.yaml,
.B docker-compose.yml,
.B compose.yaml,
.B compose.yml
.TP
.B --edit
Configure one or more projects root directories (comma-separated) and save them to config.
.br
Short alias:
.B -e
.TP
.B --print-config
Print configured projects directories.
.br
Short alias:
.B -c
.TP
.B --pad
Launchpad mode. Runs an existing launchpad or creates one if missing.
.br
Short alias:
.B -p
.TP
.B --list
List mode. Without --pad, lists projects. With --pad, lists launchpads.
.br
Short alias:
.B -l
.TP
.B --help
Show usage help.
.br
Short alias:
.B -h
.TP
.B --version
Show current version.
.br
Short alias:
.B -v
.SH LAUNCHPADS
Launchpads allow starting multiple projects in parallel.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B lo --pad <name>
run launchpad
.I name
or create it through a project checklist if it does not exist.
.br
When newly created, it is saved but not started automatically.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B lo --pad --edit [name]
edit projects associated with a launchpad.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B lo --pad --list [name]
list launchpads, or show projects for one launchpad.
.PP
Launchpads are stored in the same config file:
.B ~/.config/lo/config.json
.PP
Compose entries are saved and resolved independently, so a launchpad can include
both a project's main runtime and its compose variant.
.SH GO SUPPORT
If
.B go.mod
is found, lo runs Go projects with:
.PP
.EX
go run .
.EE
or
.PP
.EX
go run ./cmd/<name>
.EE
when a main entrypoint is detected under
.B ./cmd .
.SH CONFIGURATION
Config file location:
.PP
.B ~/.config/lo/config.json
.PP
Expected format:
.PP
.EX
{
	"projectsDir": "/home/you/Projects",
	"projectsDirs": ["/home/you/Projects", "/home/you/Work"],
	"launchpads": {"my-work": ["api", "web"]}
}
.EE
.SH SCRIPT DETECTION
For Node/Bun/Yarn/NPM projects, lo checks
.B package.json
scripts in this order:
.IP "1." 3
.B dev
.IP "2." 3
.B start
.PP
If neither exists, lo exits with an error.
.SH DOCKER COMPOSE SUPPORT
If a project root contains one of the supported compose files, lo exposes a
separate project entry labeled with
.B (compose)
and runs:
.PP
.EX
docker compose up -d --build --remove-orphans
.EE
.PP
When multiple configured roots contain the same project name, use the exact
disambiguated name shown by
.B lo --list
with the
.B compose
subcommand.
.SH RUST SUPPORT
If
.B Cargo.toml
is found, lo uses:
.PP
.EX
cargo run
.EE
.SH PYTHON SUPPORT
If a Python project is detected (for example by
.B pyproject.toml ,
.B requirements.txt ,
.B setup.py
or common entrypoints), lo uses one of these strategies:
.IP \[bu] 2
framework detection is improved by parsing
.B pyproject.toml
dependency tables.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B uv
when
.B uv.lock
exists:
.B uv sync
and
.B uv run python ...
.IP \[bu] 2
.B poetry
when
.B poetry.lock
exists:
.B poetry install
and
.B poetry run python ...
.IP \[bu] 2
fallback:
.B python3
/
.B python
(or
.B py
on Windows).
.SH JAVA SUPPORT
If a Java project is detected (by
.B pom.xml ,
.B build.gradle
or
.B build.gradle.kts ),
lo uses one of these strategies:
.IP \[bu] 2
Maven projects:
.B spring-boot:run
for Spring, otherwise
.B exec:java
fallback.
.IP \[bu] 2
Gradle projects:
.B bootRun
for Spring, otherwise
.B run
(application plugin) or
.B build
fallback.
.SH PACKAGE MANAGER DETECTION
For Node/Bun/Yarn/NPM projects, lo detects package manager by lockfile:
.IP \[bu] 2
.B pnpm-lock.yaml
->
.B pnpm
.IP \[bu] 2
.B bun.lock
or
.B bun.lockb
->
.B bun
.IP \[bu] 2
.B package-lock.json
->
.B npm
.IP \[bu] 2
.B yarn.lock
->
.B yarn
.PP
If no supported lockfile is found, lo exits with an error.
.SH TERMINAL LAUNCH
On Linux, lo tries to launch in this order:
.IP "1." 3
.B ghostty
.IP "2." 3
.B kitty
.IP "3." 3
.B alacritty
.IP "4." 3
.B gnome-terminal
.PP
On macOS, lo attempts to launch via Terminal.app (osascript).
.br
On Windows, lo attempts to launch via cmd start.
.br
If detached launch is not available, lo runs in the current shell.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
Required:
.IP \[bu] 2
.B one package manager installed (pnpm, bun, npm, or yarn) for Node/Bun/Yarn/NPM projects
.IP \[bu] 2
.B cargo for Rust projects
.PP
Optional:
.IP \[bu] 2
.B go
(only required to build from source)
.SH EXAMPLES
Start by exact project name:
.PP
.EX
lo api
.EE
.PP
Start Docker Compose for a project root:
.PP
.EX
lo compose api
.EE
.PP
Open interactive selector:
.PP
.EX
lo
.EE
.PP
Edit config:
.PP
.EX
lo --edit
.EE
.SH FILES
.B ~/.config/lo/config.json
.br
.B ~/.local/bin/lo
.br
.B ~/.local/share/man/man1/lo.1
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error, invalid config, missing dependency, or canceled selection.
.SH AUTHOR
notliad
.SH LICENSE
MIT
